LINUX Tutorial

~The Command Line~
What is it? 
  A command line, or terminal, is a text based interface to the system. You are able to enter commands by typing them on the keyboard and feedback will be given to you similarly as text.
How does it work? 
  Entering a command into the command line provides a prompt. The result is then displayed in the command line.
How do I get to one? 
  If you're on a Mac then you'll find the program Terminal under Applications -> Utilities. An easy way to get to it is the key combination 'command + space' which will bring up Spotlight, then start typing Terminal and it will soon show up.
  If on Linux then you will probably find it in Applications -> System or Applications -> Utilities. Alternatively you may be able to 'right-click' on the desktop and there may be an option 'Open in terminal'.
  If you are on Windows and intend to remotely log into another machine then you will need an SSH client. A rather good one is Putty (free) .

~Basic Navigation~
pwd: which stands for Print Working Directory
ls: short for list

There are 2 types of paths we can use, absolute and relative.
Absolute paths specify a location (file or directory) in relation to the root directory.
Relative paths specify a location (file or directory) in relation to where we currently are in the system.

cd helps us to navigate up or down to another directory.
cd can be run without a location


~More about files~
Everything is a file.
Text file
Directory file
Monitor file

Linux an extensionless system. A file extension is normally a set of 2 - 4 characters after a full stop at the end of a file, which denotes what type of file it is.

Under Linux the system actually ignores the extension and looks inside the file to determine what type of file it is.

Linux is case sensitive.
This means that it is possible to have two or more files and directories with the same name just in different case.

Spaces in names are valid. The caveate is that we will need to use quotes.
Like with "Holiday Photos"
Another is to use backslashes /home/ryan/Documents/Holiday Photos


~Manual Pages~
The manual pages are a set of pages that explain every command available on your system including what they do, the specifics of how you run them and what command line arguments they accept.

This is called the man<command>

Keyword search: This can be helpful if you're not quite sure of what command you may want to use but you know what you want to achieve.

Long hand is two dashes --
short hand is one dash -

Special note: Don't try to remember everything, simply remember you can look stuff up in the man pages.

~File Manipulation~
Linux organises it's file system in a hierarchical way.

Creating and deleting a directory is simple but, there is no undo button.

rmdir - remove directory

touch <filename> - creates a file

cp - copies a file or directory

mv - moves a directory

rm = removes/deletes a file



mkdir python-fun is creating a new directory.
cd python-fun changes your working directory to your project folder.

python3.11 -m venv .venv uses the correct version of Python to create a virtual environment for your code.

This virtual environment can be thought of as a sandbox where you can safely manage your project without conflicting with any other Python installations used by the Operating System.

The virtual environment is created in the .venv folder because .venv was the last argument supplied to the command.

NOTE: This folder is not required to be named .venv, but that is a common convention and what we will use in class.
source .venv/bin/activate will activate the virtual environment so that its version of Python becomes the current one in use.
WARNING: It’s easy to forget this step. The terminal helps you out by showing a (.venv) at beginnng of prompt.
python --version shows the currently used Python version.
It is no longer necessary to use full python3.11 command because we are running inside a virtual environment so it can safely know what version of Python is being used.
You should see a version starting with Python 3.11
deactivate will “turn off” the virtual environment. It’s still there in the .venv folder, but won’t be active until you reactivate it with source .venv/bin/activate
NOTE: If you ever delete the projects .venv folder you can recreate it with python3.11 -m venv .venv