Upgrade your technical Skills
  The importance of growing in something is not simply repitition. It is mastering the parts you are weak in and making sure that you work from start to finish to get better at those specific areas, ensuring to work from top to bottom. Many people such a pianists work only on parts of a song that are most difficult but, this dulls them in other areas of their growth making their efforts meaningless.

  The matasano Crypt challenge are great challenges. Think, what would I like to try next but am too afraid I'll fail? Stepping away from NoSQL and Javascript framework helps to put you outside of your comfort zone.

Power on believing you can improve
  If you get a grade, "NOT YET" helps to give you a positive outlook on failures. If people face a problem that they feel they cannot solve they will typically cheat, find someone worse, or avoid it altogether. These come from 10 year olds that have not yet learned how to cope with failure. How do we bridge this? Praise the process! Give them praise for being resilient and trying again. Using the word YET gives people greater confidence.

Grit: Power passion and perserverance
  Who was successful and why? Grit. Your ability to live life like it's a marathon and not a sprint.

A kinder, gentler phisophy of success
  Looking at self help books tell us that we can make it or that we don't need to be depressed. Meritocratic societies make people on the bottom feel like they deserve to be there. Is there anyway out of this? Yes, to stop judging people by their post. We are highly open to suggestion, we should focus in on our own ambition.


ASSESS: Your emotional intelligence
I have a relatively high emotional intelligence according to my score. The area that I need to work on is self-management. I am better at working on projects and managing my mood when I am upset. 

ASSESS: Your biases
My biggest issue is having courage to take up things I would like to do better. Getting involved in an allyship or advocacy is something I still lack in but, am steadily working on. 