1. Explain the purpose and basic functionality of the Pandas library. What are some common operations that can be performed on data using Pandas, and how do they contribute to data analysis and manipulation?
  The main purpose of Pandas is to enable data manipulation, cleaning, exploration, and analysis. It simplifies the process of working with tabular and time series data, offering a wide range of functionalities that contribute to data analysis and manipulation.

  Some commonf operations that can be performed using Pandas are:
  Data loading, cleaning, selection, manipulation, and analysis.

  By combining these operations, Pandas facilitates data cleaning, exploration, transformation, and analysis, enabling users to perform complex data manipulations and derive meaningful insights. It is widely used in domains such as finance, scientific research, social sciences, and data-driven decision-making across various industries.

2. What are the primary data structures in Pandas, and how do they differ in terms of use cases?
  Primary data structures in pandas are: series, dataframe, and panel.

  A dataframe is two dimensional datatype and consists of rows and columns, where each column can have a different data type (e.g., numeric, string, boolean). 

  A series is one dimensional datatype and is an object that have both row labels (an index) and column labels (a name), making them similar to a labeled array or a dictionary. 

  A panel is a three dimensional datatype, the DataFrame is the preferred data structure for handling most data analysis tasks. However, starting from Pandas version 1.0, the Panel data structure has been deprecated and is no longer recommended for general use.


3. Describe the process of loading a dataset into a Pandas DataFrame. What are some common file formats that can be used, and which Pandas functions are utilized to read these formats?
  1. The first step is to import the required library: import pandas as pd
  2. Use the Relevant Pandas Function: df = pd.read_csv('dataset.csv') or df = pd.read_excel('dataset.xlsx', sheet_name='Sheet1') (There are others)
  3. Data Exploration and Analysis: Once the dataset is loaded into a DataFrame, you can start exploring and analyzing the data