1. What is React Context, and how does it help in managing state and data sharing in a React application?
  React Context is a feature in React that allows you to share and manage state/data across multiple components in a component tree without explicitly passing props down through each intermediate component. It helps in solving the problem of "prop drilling," which can make the code more complex and harder to maintain as the application grows.

Context provides a way to create a global state that can be accessed by any component within a certain subtree of your React component hierarchy. It consists of three main parts:

Context Provider: The provider component is responsible for creating the context and providing its value to the child components. It wraps around the part of the component tree where you want to share the data. The data provided by the context provider can be any value, such as an object, array, string, number, or a function.

Context Consumer: The consumer component allows components to subscribe to the context and access the data provided by the context provider. The consumer component lets you access the data without having to pass it through multiple layers of components.

useContext Hook (React >= 16.8): With the introduction of React Hooks, specifically the useContext hook, you can access the context values directly in functional components without using a consumer.

2. Explain the useContext Hook and how it can be used to access data from a React Context within a functional component.
  The useContext hook is a built-in React hook that allows functional components to consume data from a React Context without the need for a Context.Consumer component. It simplifies the process of accessing the context's data and subscribing to updates when the context value changes.

The useContext hook takes the context object created by React.createContext and returns the current value of the context. It essentially allows functional components to "hook into" the context and access the data provided by the context provider.
  
  an exmaple: 
  const ChildComponent = () => {
  const { data, setData } = useContext(MyContext);

  return (
    <div>
      <p>Data from context: {data}</p>
      <button onClick={() => setData("New Data")}>
        Change Data
      </button>
    </div>
  );
};

3. Describe the purpose of Next.js, and provide an example from the Vercel Next.js Examples reading on how it can be used to build a scalable web application.
Next.js is a popular open-source React framework built on top of Node.js that aims to simplify and enhance the development of server-side rendered (SSR) and static web applications. It provides a set of features and conventions to streamline the creation of modern web applications with better performance, SEO, and developer experience.

Key features and purposes of Next.js:

Server-side rendering (SSR): Next.js allows you to render React components on the server side before sending them to the client. SSR improves the initial loading time of the page and ensures that search engines can crawl and index your website effectively, leading to better SEO.

Static site generation (SSG): Next.js supports static site generation, which pre-builds the pages at build time and serves them as static files. This further enhances performance as it eliminates the need for server-side rendering on every request.

Automatic code splitting: Next.js automatically splits your JavaScript code into smaller chunks, so only the necessary code is loaded for each page. This helps in reducing the initial load time and improving performance.

File-based routing: Next.js uses a straightforward file-based routing system, where the file structure inside the "pages" directory determines the routes of your application. This simplifies the organization of pages and routes.

API routes: Next.js provides built-in support for creating API routes, enabling you to define serverless server-side logic that can be accessed by the frontend.

Fast refresh: Next.js incorporates a "fast refresh" feature that allows you to see changes in the code immediately during development, without losing component state.