Behavioral Questions:

Question 1: Tell me about a time when you juggled multiple tasks at the same time.
Situation:  I was assigned to be a squad leader during my time with the reserves.
Task: I was tasked with teaching a lance corporal seminar while still completing my monthly counseling's for all of my marines while we were busy prepping a field op.
Action: In order to balance out these tasks I ensured that I brought all required teaching documents and counseling's with me to the field in order to get all work completed by close of business the following day.
Result: I had managed to complete all assigned tasks within the given time by properly balancing my duties with my assigned roles.

Question 2: Tell me about a time when you had to take charge of a situation.
Situation: In college, we were required to make a short film for a group project showing the effects of depression.
Task: We only had a week to get the required material together and shoot a short film but, my classmates struggled with forming a time and place to meet up to come up with the idea for the short film.
Action: I came up with a plan of action, brought the film equipment, and found a space in the library to meet up in order to shoot our film.
Result: We were given a good grade on our project because of the initiative I showed.
 
Question 3: Tell me about a time when you had to handle a delicate situation.
Situation: I worked for an individual property owner where I managed his property and had to handle an eviction days before I had to leave the state.
Task: I was tasked with completing a full eviction of one of the tenants who refused to pay or move out.
Action: I stayed in the state an extra 15 days to ensure that there were no issues with the court, to personally make sure that the tenant vacated the property.
Result: As a result I saved my homeowner over $1000 in cleaning, while keeping damage to a minimal. I also saved the homeowner up to $500 in court fee's and possibly up to a month or more in lost rent in the result of a failed eviction.

Behavioral Questions:

Question 4: How do you manage stress on the job?
Situation: 
I'm a huge advocate for taking personal accountability for yourself. I don't mean to avoid getting help or to self medicate just to get the job done but, to really take care of yourself in order to arrive at your best. When it comes to tackling large goals, I will need plenty of sleep, water, and healthy food. I also like to tackle larger projects into smaller parts by moving on from parts that I feel simply stuck. Instead of exhausting myself with things I don't know how to fix, I take care of other tasks that I can complete here and now to avoid pushing 10 things to a deadline and reducing them to one or two difficult problems that I can isolate and get a definitive answer on later. 

I also feel it's important to take breaks, if you are getting frustrated with a problem that seems impossible then its important to take a mental break. 5 minutes is enough time to pull yourself away from a problem and calm yourself down before trying the problem from a different angle. 


Question 5: Can you tell me about a time when you failed on the job?
Situation: When I left active duty, I joined up with the reserves and was assigned a position of squad leader for a team of 15 marines. We had a large training exercise that required us to be in the field training for a full day, culminating for a final exercise which would show the result of our efforts to several other units outside of our Military Occupational Specialty. The culmination happened at night and required us to move our squad into a town to engage threats within the town and then capture a VIP. Everything up to that point was going well, leading up to the town but soon after we were beginning to fall behind schedule. By the time we brought back the VIP we were already nearly an hour late returning. I was flustered and quickly made it back without doing a count to check if all my marines made it back. One of them had fallen behind and gotten left inside the town. It was a simple mistake but, it was a huge embarrassment to my entire unit that one of their squad leaders couldn't even think to do a head count. The scolding I got was something that I would never forget.

Moving forward, I always make sure to do a double take of anything I'm working on. Taking time to reassess my tasks or whatever I'm currently doing at the time to ensure that I have meticulously avoided obvious errors in my work. 
 
Question 6: Describe a time when you had to deal with an upset customer. How did you handle it?
Situation: 
When I was working for a contract security company in arizona, we were going through the covid-19 pandemic. I was in charge of watching a verizon store and making sure that everyone that came inside the store wore a mask. One customer in particular had his mask around his neck, when asked repeatedly by the manager to keep his mask up the customer complained that he was being targeted by the manager. I de-escalated the situation by asking the customer to step outside in order to find a solution to his problem and to avoid disturbing other customers inside the store. The customer complied and then started to make threats at the manager from outside the store saying "Once you get off work" "If I find you on the street I'll". Finally I asked the customer what his particular goal of that evening was. He explained that he wanted to simply buy a phone but, the manager expressed his refusal by explaining that the man was not to be let inside the store.

I realized the solution to the issue immediately, I asked the customer if he knew what phone he wanted. He confirmed that after browsing the store he knew exactly what phone he was trying to purchase. I asked him to go onto his phone and download the verizon app. From there I walked him through step by step on how to purchase the exact phone he was looking for straight from the app. The customer immediately began to calm down and even started apologizing to the manager for getting hostile. The manager praised me for not only de-escalating the situation but, also having the initiative of solving a problem instead of allowing the customer to stand outside yelling threats. Forcing the customers to become uncomfortable and the stores reputation coming at risk of shutting down because of the complaints. A situation that had happened to several other locations in the area. 